As you might remember from
earlier in the program,
the National Institute of
Standards and Technology,
NIST, provides many
frameworks that are used by
security professionals to manage
risks, threats, and
vulnerabilities.
In this video, we're
going to focus on
NIST's Risk Management
Framework or RMF.
As an entry-level analyst,
you may not engage in
all of these steps,
but it's important to be
familiar with this framework.
Having a solid
foundational understanding
of how to mitigate
and manage risks can
set yourself apart from
other candidates as you
begin your job search in
the field of security.
There are seven steps in the
RMF: prepare, categorize,
select, implement, assess,
authorize, and monitor.
Let's start with
Step one, prepare.
Prepare refers to activities
that are necessary to manage
security and privacy risks
before a breach occurs.
As an entry-level analyst,
you'll likely use this step
to monitor for risks and
identify controls that can be
used to reduce those risks.
Step two is categorize,
which is used to develop
risk management
processes and tasks.
Security professionals then
use those processes and
develop tasks by thinking
about how the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of
systems and information
can be impacted by risk.
As an entry-level analyst,
you'll need to be able
to understand how
to follow the
processes established
by your organization
to reduce risks to
critical assets, such as
private customer information.
Step three is select.
Select means to
choose, customize,
and capture documentation of
the controls that
protect an organization.
An example of the select
step would be keeping
a playbook up-to-date
or helping to
manage other documentation
that allows you and
your team to address
issues more efficiently.
Step four is to implement
security and privacy plans
for the organization.
Having good plans in
place is essential for
minimizing the impact of
ongoing security risks.
For example, if you
notice a pattern of
employees constantly
needing password resets,
implementing a change to
password requirements may
help solve this issue.
Step five is assess.
Assess means to determine if
established controls are
implemented correctly.
An organization always wants
to operate as
efficiently as possible.
So it's essential to
take the time to
analyze whether the
implemented protocols,
procedures, and
controls that are in
place are meeting
organizational needs.
During this step,
analysts identify
potential weaknesses
and determine
whether the
organization's tools,
procedures, controls,
and protocols should be
changed to better
manage potential risks.
Step six is authorize.
Authorize means being
accountable for
the security and
privacy risks that
may exist in an organization.
As an analyst,
the authorization step could
involve generating reports,
developing plans of action,
and establishing project
milestones that are
aligned to your organization's
security goals.
Step seven is monitor.
Monitor means to be aware of
how systems are operating.
Assessing and maintaining
technical operations
are tasks that analysts
complete daily.
Part of maintaining
a low level of
risk for an organization is
knowing how the
current systems support
the organization's
security goals.
If the systems in place
don't meet those goals,
changes may be needed.
Although it may not be
your job to establish
these procedures,
you will need to make sure
they're working as
intended so that
risks to the organization itself,
and the people it
serves, are minimized.